[docs-revamp] - Clean up Asset Checks guide (#24483)
dagster-io/dagster: docs/docs-beta/docs/guides/asset-checks.md

---
title: "Testing assets with Asset Checks"
sidebar_position: 10
sidebar_label: "Asset Checks"
---

Asset checks in Dagster provide a way to define and execute different types of data quality checks on your data assets.

> This guide covers the most common use cases for testing assets with asset checks and taking action based on the result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Asset checks are tests that verify specific properties of your data assets. For example, you can create checks to:

- Ensure a particular column doesn't contain null values
- Verify that a tabular asset adheres to a specified schema
- Check if an asset's data needs refreshing
```

Could be helpful to provide use cases rather than saying they cover use cases

<details>
<summary>Prerequisites</summary>

To follow this guide, you'll need:

- Familiarity with [Assets](/concepts/assets)
</details>

> 

Reviewer: I think asset checks is a deep enough topic that it warrants a short overview, maybe something like this?

```suggestion
## Getting Started with Asset Checks

To get started with asset checks, you can follow these general steps, which are detailed below:

1. **Define an asset check:** Asset checks are typically defined using the `@asset_check` or `@multi_asset_check` decorator and run either within an asset or separate from the asset.
2.** Pass the asset checks to the `Definitions` object:** Asset checks must be added to Definitions for Dagster to recognize them.
3. **Choose how you wish to execute asset checks**: by default, all jobs targeting an asset will also run associated checks, although you can run asset checks through the UI.
4. **View asset check results in the UI**: Asset check results will appear in the UI and can be customized through the use of metadata and severity levels
5. **Alert on failed asset check results**: If you are using Dagster+, you can choose to alert on asset checks.

```

## Defining a single asset check \{#single-check}

:::tip
Dagster's dbt integration can model existing dbt tests as asset checks. Refer to the [dagster-dbt documentaiton](/integrations/dbt) for more information.
:::

> Single asset checks are defined using the `@asset_check` decorator.

Reviewer: We havent really defined what a 'single' asset check is

Author: Added something about this to the page intro.

> The following example defines an asset check on an asset that fails if the `order_id` column of the asset contains a null value. The asset check will run after the asset has been materialized, to ensure the quality of its data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example defines an asset check on an asset that fails if the `order_id` column of the asset contains a null value. The asset check will run after the asset has been materialized.
```

<CodeExample filePath="guides/data-assets/quality-testing/asset-checks/single-asset-check.py" language="python" />

## Defining multiple asset checks \{#multiple-checks}

> In most cases, checking the data quality of an asset will require multiple checks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In some cases, checking the data quality of an asset can require multiple checks.
```

The following example defines two asset checks using the `@multi_asset_check` decorator:

- One check that fails if the `order_id` column of the asset contains a null value
- Another check that fails if the `item_id` column of the asset contains a null value

In this example, both asset checks will run in a single operation after the asset has been materialized.

<CodeExample filePath="guides/data-assets/quality-testing/asset-checks/multiple-asset-checks.py" language="python" />

## Programmatically generating asset checks \{#factory-pattern}

Defining multiple checks can also be done using a factory pattern. The example below defines the same two asset checks as in the previous example, but this time using a factory pattern and the `@multi_asset_check` decorator.

<CodeExample filePath="guides/data-assets/quality-testing/asset-checks/asset-checks-factory.py" language="python" />

## Blocking downstream materialization

:::info

> This feature is only supported by the `@asset_check` decorator.

Reviewer 2: This seems like a pretty significant limitation.

My first questions is how to prevent materialization if one-or-the-other check fails. Does this fall under declarative automation?

Reviewer: This is also not true in dbt, since dbt runs stop if a test fails

Author: Hmm, I'm not totally sure. DC can skip materializing downstream assets with failing/missing/in progress upstream parents, but AFAIK not due to something like null values. Maybe a question for @owen?
